Create ADR for multi lza config management (#29)
UKHomeOffice/core-cloud: documentation/adr/004-multi-LZA-configuration-management.md

---
layout: page.njk
status: Proposed
date: git Created
tags:
  - adr
order: 4
title: 004 - Enable Multi LZA Configuration 
---

**Date: {{ page.date.toISOString().substring(0,10) }}**

**Status: {{ status }}**

## Context

To independently develop and assure features and functionality before general availability, multiple LZA environments are required as part of the teams SDLC. As a result, the team need a way to manage environment specific configuration e.g., workload accounts.

> The files used within LZA to manage the configuration of the deployment are YAML format, with the exception being IAM policies that are JSON. These are not required to differ between deployments.

Reviewer: We may need to vary these i.e. test them in our dev account. However I expect we can manage this but creating new policies and the overriding the reference to the file in the yaml. We should probably acknowledge that possibly as we have before as a consequence e.g

- we can only template yaml files
- to replace files in other formats a complete file must be provided and the reference to the file be overridden in the yaml.
- **environment specific configuration will be deployed to codecommit repositories in environments they're not targeted for**

I put the last one in bold because it should be included anyway

Author: Updated in latest commit.

Having discussed this requirement with AWS, their recommendation is to use templating as part of the deployment pipeline to pass in environment specific config.

## Decision

We will implement templating before deployment to CodeCommit.

We will move to having a baseline configuration, with environment specific code to be applied on top.

We will ensure differences in configuration can be validated and approved before merge, and deployment to an environment.

We will ensure that baseline configuration and deployed configuration is visible within CodeCommit to platform engineers.

We will create a new process for platform engineers to follow to ensure changes are deployed correctly between environments.

> 

Reviewer: Did we also say we would prevent access being given to the repo outside of LZA i.e. we don't want a platform to be able to give access to the repository outside of LZA. i.e. we need to centrally manage access to this repository

Author: Updated in latest commit.

> 

Reviewer: Did we also decide that all repositories will still maintain common history in main.

Author: Updated in latest commit.

## Consequences

> Deployment pipeline will need to be updated to allow for templated values to be applied whilst maintaining the baseline configuration. This change impacts the way that git history is currently maintained, however will allow us to differentiate between baseline and deployed configuration.

Reviewer: Not sure the second line is true given the comment above. Actually a consequence I hope to see is that they all share common history in the main branch

Author: Updated in latest commit.

> Permissions will need to be applied to workload accounts to ensure no access exists to view the deployment CodeCommit repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restrictions will need to be applied to ensure only LZA config can manage access to the CodeCommit repository.
```

Author: Updated in latest commit.

---
layout: page.njk
status: Proposed
date: git Created
tags:
  - adr
order: 4
title: 004 - Enable Multi LZA Configuration 
---

**Date: {{ page.date.toISOString().substring(0,10) }}**

**Status: {{ status }}**

## Context

> As a result of needing multiple LZA deployments as part of the SDLC of the platform, the products and the ability to assure them, we need a way to be able to manage the environment specific configuration e.g. Workload Accounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To independently develop and assure features and functionality before general availability, multiple LZA environments are required as part of the teams SDLC. As a result, the team need a way to manage environment specific configuration e.g., workload accounts.
```

Author: Updated

> The files used within LZA to manage the configuration of the deployment are YAML format, with the exception of IAM policies which are JSON format but aren't currently likely to differ between deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The files used within LZA to manage the configuration of the deployment are YAML format, with the exception being IAM policies that are JSON. These are not required to differ between deployments.
```

Author: Updated

Having discussed this requirement with AWS, their recommendation is to use templating as part of the deployment pipeline to pass in environment specific config.

## Decision

> We will implement templating before code is deployed to CodeCommit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will implement templating before deployment to CodeCommit.
```

Author: Updated

> We will move to a baseline configuration that is not environment specific and all environments will require their environment specific code to be deployed on top of this configuration.

Reviewer 2: We will to having a baseline configuration, with environment specific code being applied on top.

Author: Updated

> We will ensure that differences in configuration can be validated and approved before merge and deployment to an environment.

Reviewer 2: Mainly to separate out merge and deployment.

```suggestion
We will ensure differences in configuration can be validated and approved before merge, and deployment to an environment.
```

Author: Updated

We will ensure that baseline configuration and deployed configuration is visible within CodeCommit to platform engineers.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Blank line removed.

## Consequences
Deployment pipeline will need to be updated to allow for templated values to be applied whilst maintaining the baseline configuration. This change impacts the way that git history is currently maintained, however will allow us to differentiate between baseline and deployed configuration.

> Permissions will need to be applied to Workload accounts to ensure that no access exists to view the deployment CodeCommit repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Permissions will need to be applied to workload accounts to ensure no access exists to view the deployment CodeCommit repository.
```

Author: Updated

> Environment specific configuration is held within private GitHub repository that platform developers can manage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Environment specific configuration is stored within a private GitHub repository that platform developers can manage.
```

Author: Updated

> As features are propagated between environments, a further process is required to manage the deployment between environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As features are propagated between environments, a further process is required to manage the deployment of changes between environments.
```

Author: Updated

Additional tooling needs to be understood and adopted by the team.

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Blank lines removed
